README.md, before:

# Common Ancestor Objective Function and Parent Set DAG Metric Container Extension 

 draft-ietf-roll-nsa-extension 

This repository relates to activities in the Internet Engineering Task Force(IETF). All material in this repository is considered Contributions
to the IETF Standards Process, as defined in the intellectual property policies of IETF currently designated as BCP 78 (https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp78), BCP 79
(https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp79) and the IETF Trust Legal Provisions (TLP) Relating to IETF Documents (http://trustee.ietf.org/trust-legal-provisions.html).

Any edit, commit, pull-request, comment or other change made to this repository constitutes Contributions to the IETF Standards Process. You
agree to comply with all applicable IETF policies and procedures, including, BCP 78, 79, the TLP, and the TLP rules regarding code
components (e.g. being subject to a Simplified BSD License) in Contributions.

IETF Policies - Please read the note-well https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/ before participation.

Commit message:

Change from XML-based draft to Markdown-based
Rendered output is identical
Using kramdown-rfc2629

README.md, after:

# Common Ancestor Objective Function and Parent Set DAG Metric Container Extension 

 draft-ietf-roll-nsa-extension 
 
 
This repository needs the:
* xml2rfc tool - https://xml2rfc.tools.ietf.org/
* kramdown-rfc2629 - https://github.com/cabo/kramdown-rfc2629

This repository relates to activities in the Internet Engineering Task Force(IETF). All material in this repository is considered Contributions
to the IETF Standards Process, as defined in the intellectual property policies of IETF currently designated as BCP 78 (https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp78), BCP 79
(https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp79) and the IETF Trust Legal Provisions (TLP) Relating to IETF Documents (http://trustee.ietf.org/trust-legal-provisions.html).

Any edit, commit, pull-request, comment or other change made to this repository constitutes Contributions to the IETF Standards Process. You
agree to comply with all applicable IETF policies and procedures, including, BCP 78, 79, the TLP, and the TLP rules regarding code
components (e.g. being subject to a Simplified BSD License) in Contributions.

IETF Policies - Please read the note-well https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/ before participation.
